Inside of our directory here,
inside of our source directory outside of routes,
create another folder called API.
This is just something I do,
not even just a React-specific thing,
this is just across many things.
I'll write my API request is just like
little individual functions,
and then I'll import those to be used later,
and that works really well with Tamstack query.
You don't have to do it this way.
I'm just going to show you the way
that I would typically go about structuring this.
So inside of this, make a file and call it getPastOrders,
and call it .js, .jsx.
I think in my notes I have a .js,
we'll just stick with that, doesn't matter.
Export default async function getPastOrders,
and it takes in a page,
because it's paginated, right?
Const response equals await fetch,
and then this is going to go to slash API
slash past orders,
page equals page.
This is a template string,
so make sure you're using back ticks here,
which is the one next to the one
on the same key as the tilde.
And then this will put in the page,
whatever we got there,
and then we will say const data equals await
response.json and return data.
Fairly straightforward here,
it's going to go out to the API,
you're going to give it a page,
it's going to call past orders,
it's going to give it a page,
and then you are going to get data back from this.
So it's just going to be a promise
that eventually gives you back past order data
based on a page.
Okay, cool.
Let us go back to
past.lazy.jsx.
Yeah, one thing I was going to say
about the getPastOrders function here,
this is, we're going to use it with 10-stack query,
but obviously you could use this anywhere, right?
This doesn't have to be used with 10-stack query,
this could be used in an effect, right?
Or in your testing, or whatever you want, right?
It's nice to encapsulate the logic
in kind of like small reusable pieces of information there.
Past.lazy.jsx, let's go make this component here.
So I'm going to make a function down here,
it's going to be called past orders route,
and I'm going to call this just past orders route,
just like that.
This one I'm a little bit more like,
I like having the named function here,
which is why I'm not just putting it directly
here in component.
Having what page it happened on in your stack trace
tends to be more useful, more often than not.
Up here, we're going to import use state,
which we're going to use to encapsulate
the page that we're on from React.
We're going to import this wonderful new hook
called use query from at tan stack React query,
and we're going to import get past orders
from API get past orders.
Okay, that takes care of that.
We're going to get a hook here for the page.
Page set page, that should look familiar to you.
Equals use state, and we will start them on page one.
And const is loading and data equals use query.
So a couple of things here.
We have to give it a query key.
This is an array, and it's like,
how many of you have ever used Redis before?
Probably asking the wrong crowd here.
But Redis much functions the same way
that you kind of give out these query keys,
and it's like how it stores it in the cache, right?
And then later you can say like,
hey, I'm looking for the past orders,
and then I'm looking for the page, right?
This is a unique thing to this query
so that it knows later when it goes like,
hey, I'm looking for past orders page two,
it's going to be like, I have seen that before,
here you go, or I have never seen this before,
or another thing you can say like,
I've seen this before, but my cache is stale,
so I'm going to go get it again, right?
That's what this query key is for.
It's for the name of the key in the cache.
And if you're interested in Redis,
Redis works a lot the same way.
Okay, you're going to give it a query function,
and you're just going to say,
all right, give me back, get past orders with page.
And then stale time,
I think I gave it a 30 second stale time.
Why such a short stale time?
This is in milliseconds, by the way,
that's why it's 30,000.
All right, so imagine you're a pizzeria,
and you're looking at past orders,
and this is how you put your orders together.
You want it to be pretty up to date, right?
Because you want to see the orders as they're rolling in.
So I had it expiring every 30 seconds
so that you can always be guaranteed every 30 seconds,
you're getting a fresh,
pun kind of intended there, look at the pizzas, right?
But if you're going back and forth a bunch of times,
you don't want to just hammer the API, right?
So it makes sense that you would have
a little bit of cache time there.
So 30 seconds felt right to me,
but this is how you would adjust it, right?
There's other things, in fact,
one of them that we're about to do,
we're going to cache for a whole day,
because the past orders don't change,
and we don't really need to refresh those very often.
So it all depends on your needs.
Caching in general is just kind of is hard.
It's hard to figure out how long things should be good for.
So kind of a guess and check kind of situation.
If I had to guess like most major bugs,
throughout my career have been caused by caching issues.
Is that fair to say?
Yeah, I think that's pretty fair to say.
All right, so if is loading,
this is another nice thing about React query.
There's a bunch of them.
There's like is success, is fetched, is loading, is paused,
pending, is placeholder data, is refetch error.
They give you a bunch of different things here.
You can also just grab the status, I think.
This is like an enumerated type
as opposed to being like a Boolean, right?
So you can also use that as well.
If David Korsheed was here, the guy that does X state,
he'd be very happy that you could make it a state machine.
I am not going to make it a state machine
because I'm not a nerd.
That's not true.
I am a nerd.
He's probably less nerdy than I am,
but whenever find me, David, it's fine.
So if is loading,
return div class name equals past dash orders.
And we're gonna have, again,
my very, very user experience focused loading here.
I hope you get that I'm being facetious here.
You should have a much better loading state
than just returning loading here,
but I didn't want to spend half of our time
building loading pages, so that's why we're doing this.
Please care more about your users than I care about you.
No, I'm just kidding.
That's a joke.
I do care deeply about each and every one of you.
I woke up and chose violence today.
Okay, here we go.
Return.
So if it's not loading,
then we can assume that our past orders have loaded
and we can just make like a nice little table here
of all of our past orders.
Feel free to just go into there
and just copy all of the mark up here,
but I'm gonna write it here by hand
if you want to follow along.
That's cool, too.
We've had no problems with me forgetting divs
or anything like that,
so I'm very confident this time will be no different.
Table, T-head, Thed, as I like to say.
Table row, table definition, ID.
So these are our head rows.
This is an ID.
This is a date.
This is a time.
Okay, and then out of the Thed,
there's the Tabati, as it is said.
Then we're gonna say data.
We're gonna get map across our data
and make those into rows.
Map order.
You can make this into like the return blah, right,
and use curly braces there,
but because I'm lazy,
if you use parentheses here,
you can use the implicit return.
I think I've used that here previously,
but we're gonna do that again here.
That's why this is a parentheses instead of a curly brace.
And in this case, in case you're wondering,
the parentheses in and of itself doesn't do anything.
It just means continued on the next row, right?
That's why the parentheses ends up being put here.
You definitely could do something
like just put the thing directly on the same row,
but this looks nicer, so we'll do it this way.
All right, tr, we have to give it a key.
And a good key for this is order, order ID.
Okay, and then td,
we're gonna do order.orderID.
Couple of those.
Next one will be date.
Next one will be time.
Okay, that should give us our rows and our tables.
And so outside of the tabati and the table,
we're gonna have another div here,
and this is gonna be called pages.
And we're just gonna get some basic pagination buttons here.
So button disabled equals page is greater than
or less than and equal to one.
So again, this is just my font
combining the two into one thing,
but it's less than or equal to one.
Okay, onClick,
equals setPage, or it's a function,
setPage, page minus one.
And we'll put previous here.
And then the next one looks really similar,
so I'm just gonna copy and paste that whole block here.
So the disabled, I know these kind of look similar,
so the disabled, I know these come in lengths of 10,
and I didn't wanna make the API
any more complicated than this,
so I said data.length is less than 10,
because if it returns like eight results,
you know you've reached the end, right?
The only problem is like, what if there's exactly 10 left,
you're gonna get a page of zero after that.
Again, phenomenal user experience.
You should definitely listen to me
and hire me to consult at your company.
That's a joke, that's a terrible idea,
but this is what we are doing.
So this should be minus one here,
sorry, there should be a space here on line 46.
And as the same here, there should be a plus one,
there should be a space there.
And then instead of previous here, we're gonna have next.
There's like some amount of thousands of orders
in the database, unless you're very bored
and want to page through all of them one day,
I don't think many people are gonna find the end of this
and discover what a terrible experience this is.
I think that should be enough for us to see if it works.
So past orders, we made this button previously,
so I think if we click on that, it's gonna load.
And it did, okay, cool.
So you can see here, throughout the course here,
I've submitted two orders here, which is pretty cool.
Cause you can see those are in 2024.
I grabbed a data set off of Kaggle for pizza orders.
That's why all these are from 2015.
We're not like time traveling in the past right now.
And you're like, how is he talking about React 18 in 2015?
It's cause I knew, I'm just kidding.
But there you go.
There you go.
And so you can see these are taking a while.
Did I leave that?
Let's just check in my API.
I think I might've left the weight in there.
That's funny.
All right.
But now if I hit previous, what's gonna happen?
Notice that these loads are instant
between these two that I've loaded before.
But if I hit next again, it's gonna load it again, right?
So it's going back to the API.
Yeah, I think I put an artificial delay into this API
so that people could tell the difference.
But now look at your open your 10 stack dev tools.
You can see these being used here.
So if I do next, it's gonna show you things I have
in my cache here, and that it's gonna go out
and get this one.
You can click on that, I think.
And you can see what the key is.
This only has one observer.
But if you have a bunch of things
that we're looking at these cache keys,
it would look at that as well.
And you can see what it came back with,
the actual data, right?
The order ID, date, time, all sorts of really cool stuff.
Pretty useful.
I use the dev tools for this one somewhat frequently.